---
title: Constructs Reference
weight: 98
menu:
  platform:
    parent: "CLI"
---

## `Project`

A `Project` defines core settings and defaults for the CLI and other constructs like Checks. In many cases, you can just
use set defaults for your Checks in the `checks` property and override them occasionally at the Check or CheckGroup level.

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'checkly'

export default defineConfig({
  projectName: 'Website Monitoring',
  logicalId: 'website-monitoring-1',
  repoUrl: 'https://github.com/acme/website',
  checks: {
    activated: true,
    muted: false,
    runtimeId: '2022.10',
    frequency: 5,
    locations: ['us-east-1', 'eu-west-1'],
    tags: ['website', 'api'],
    alertChannels: [],
    checkMatch: '**/__checks__/*.check.ts',
    ignoreDirectoriesMatch: [],
    browserChecks: {
      frequency: 10,
      testMatch: '**/__checks__/*.spec.ts',
    },
  },
  cli: {
    runLocation: 'eu-west-1',
    privateRunLocation: 'private-dc1'
  }
})
```

- `projectName` : A friendly name for your Project.
- `logicalId` : A unique identifier for this Project. Like all logical ID's, this should be stable.
- `repoUrl` : An optional URL to a Git repository.

- `checks`: Top-level defaults for all Checks in this Project. If not overridden at the Check or CheckGroup level, these
settings apply to your Checks. Takes all [Check properties](#check)
  - `checkMatch`: A glob pattern where the CLI should look for files containing Check constructs. For more info check [the
    dedicated docs on checkMatch and testMatch](/docs/cli/using-check-test-match/)
  - `ignoreDirectoriesMatch`: An array of glob patterns which directories should be ignored by the `checkMatch` property.
  - `browserChecks`: Top-level defaults specifically for Browser Checks generated by a glob match pattern. All [Check properties](#check)
  are valid here.
    - `testMatch`: Glob pattern where the CLI looks for Playwright test files, i.e. all `.spec.ts` files. For more info check [the
dedicated docs on checkMatch and testMatch](/docs/cli/using-check-test-match/)

- `cli`: Defaults for CLI commands.
  - `runLocation`: The default run location when running `npx checkly test`.
  - `privateRunLocation`: The default private run location when running `npx checkly test`.

## `Check`

The CLI currently supports two Check types: API Checks and Browser Checks. All checks share the following common properties
derived from the abstract class `Check`.

- `name` : A friendly name for your Check.
- `frequency`: How often to run your Check in minutes, i.e. `60` for every hour.
- `locations`: An array of location codes where to run your Checks, i.e. `['us-east-1', 'eu-west-1']`.
- `privateLocations`: an array of [Private Locations](https://www.checklyhq.com/docs/private-locations/) slugs, i.e. `['datacenter-east-1']`.
- `activated`: A boolean value if your Check is activated or not.
- `muted`: A boolean value if alert notifications from your Check are muted, i.e. not sent out.
- `group`: The `CheckGroup` object that this check is part of.
- `alertChannels`: An array of `AlertChannel` objects to which to send alert notifications.
- `doubleCheck`: A boolean value if Checkly should double check on failure.
- `tags`: An array of tags to help you organize your Checks, i.e. `['product', 'api']`
- `runtimeId`: The ID of which [runtime](https://www.checklyhq.com/docs/runtimes/specs/) to use for this Check.
- `testOnly`: A boolean determining if the Check is available only when `test` runs and not included when `deploy` is executed.

Note that most properties have sane default values and do not need to be specified.

## `ApiCheck`

API Checks are a good fit for monitoring typical HTTP based endpoints like REST APIs and GraphQL APIs, but can also be
used for form encoded payloads. The example below shows the following:

- It defines the basic Check properties like `name`, `activated` etc.
- It defines the HTTP method `POST`, `url` and the `body`
- It sets an extra header in the `headers` array.
- It sets an extra parameter in the `queryParameters` array, although you could add that to the URL directly too.
- It defines an array of assertions using the `AssertionBuilder` to assert that:
  - the HTTP response status is `200`
  - the JSON response body has a property called `name` by using the [JSON path](https://jsonpath.com/) expression `$.name`
  - the `strict-transport-security` response header's `max-age` property has a value greater than 100000.
- It runs a **setup script** and **teardown script**, which are just TypeScript files referenced from the same directory.


The file hierarchy looks as follows:

```
├── __checks__
│   ├── hello-api.check.ts
│   ├── setup.ts
│   ├── teardown.ts
```

```ts
// hello-api.check.ts

import { ApiCheck, AssertionBuilder } from 'checkly/constructs'
import * as path from 'path'

new ApiCheck('hello-api-1', {
  name: 'Hello API',
  activated: true,
  setupScript: {
      entrypoint: path.join(__dirname, 'setup.ts') 
  },
  tearDownScript: {
    entrypoint: path.join(__dirname, 'teardown.ts')     
  },
  maxResponseTime: 10000,
  degradedResponseTime: 5000,
  request: {
    method: 'POST',
    url: ' https://httpbin.org/post',
    body: JSON.stringify({
      name: 'checkly'
    }),
    skipSSL: false,
    followRedirects: true,
    headers: [
      {
        key: 'X-My-Header',
        value: 'My custom header value'
      }
    ],
    queryParameters: [
      {
        key: 'myParam',
        value: 'true'
      }
    ],
    assertions: [
        AssertionBuilder.statusCode().equals(200),
        AssertionBuilder.jsonBody('$.name').notEmpty(),
        AssertionBuilder.headers('strict-transport-security', 'max-age=(\\d+)').greaterThan(10000),
    ]
  }
})
```

- `setupScript` : An object with either an `entrypoint` property that points to a `.js|ts` file, or a `content` property with
raw JavaScript / TypeScript as a string. This runs before the API check is executed. Check [our docs on how to use setup and teardown scripts](/docs/api-checks/setup-teardown-scripts/).
- `tearDownScript` : An object with either an `entrypoint` property that points to a `.js|ts` file, or a `content` property with
  raw JavaScript / TypeScript as a string. This runs after the API check is executed. Check [our docs on how to use setup and teardown scripts](/docs/api-checks/setup-teardown-scripts/).
- `maxResponseTime` : The response time in milliseconds where a check should be considered failing.
- `degradedResponseTime`: The response time in milliseconds where a check should be considered degraded.
- `request`: An object of the `Request` type. See the [`Request` reference](#request).

### `Request`

The `request` object is a mandatory part of an API check.

- `url`: A string for the target URL.
- `method`: The HTTP method as a string, i.e. `GET | POST | PUT | PATCH | HEAD | DELETE | OPTIONS`
- `body`: A string for HTTP request body.
- `bodyType`: A string indicating the type of body. Options are `JSON | FORM | RAW | GRAPHQL | NONE`. This property is mostly
for rendering the body type in the web UI and not needed in most cases using the CLI.
- `headers`: An array of `{ key: 'X-My-Header', value: 123 }` objects to define HTTP headers.
- `queryParameters`: An array of `{ key: 'my-param', value: 123 }` objects to define query parameters.
- `followRedirects`: A boolean indicating automatic following of any `30x` redirects.
- `skipSSL`: A boolean indicating whether invalid or self-signed SSL certificates should be validated.
- `basicAuth`: An object of the shape `{ username: 'admin', password: 'admin' }` to set basic auth credentials.
- `assertions`: An array of assertions to validate status codes, response bodies and much more. 
See the [`AssertionBuilder` reference](#assertionbuilder).

### `AssertionBuilder`

To define `assertions` for the `request` of an `ApiCheck` you should use the `AssertionBuilder`. The `AssertionBuilder` provides a fluent
API for the otherwise slightly cryptic JSON object that the CLI passes to the Checkly API. Here are some examples:


- Asserting an HTTP status code.
```ts
AssertionBuilder.statusCode().equals(200)
// renders to a JSON string
"{ source: 'STATUS_CODE', regex: '', property: '', comparison: 'EQUALS', target: '200' }"
```

- Asserting a part of a JSON response body using a JSON path expression. [Learn more about using JSON path]((/docs/api-checks/assertions/#json-responses-with-json-path)).
```ts
AssertionBuilder.jsonBody('$.data').greaterThan(2000),
// renders to a JSON string
"{ source: 'JSON_BODY', regex: '', property: '$.data', comparison: 'GREATER_THAN', target: '2000' }"
```

- Asserting the value of a part of an HTTP response header. Note that you can pass in a regex as the second argument.
```ts
AssertionBuilder.headers('strict-transport-security', 'max-age=(\\d+)').greaterThan(10000),
// renders to a JSON string
"{ source: 'HEADERS', regex: 'max-age=(\d+)', property: 'strict-transport-security', comparison: 'GREATER_THAN', target: '100000' }"
```

The `AssertionBuilder` defines the following sources as an entry to building an assertion.

- `statusCode()`: Assert the HTTP status code for the HTTP request, e.g. `200` or `404`.
- `jsonBody(property?)`: Assert the JSON response body. Accepts a [JSON path expression](/docs/api-checks/assertions/#json-responses-with-json-path) as the `property` argument.
- `textBody()`: Assert the body as raw text.
- `headers(propery?, regex?)`: Assert a set of response headers, takes the header name as the `property` argument and a `regex` to tease out a string from the header value.
- `responseTime()`: Assert the total response time of the HTTP request.

Read more about assertions in [our docs on API check assertions](/docs/api-checks/assertions/).

## `BrowserCheck`

Browser Checks are based on [`@playwright/test`](https://playwright.dev/). You can just write `.spec.js|ts` files with test cases
and the Checkly CLI will pick them up and apply some default settings like a name, run locations and run frequency to turn
them into synthetic monitoring Checks.

However, you can override these global settings and configure individual Browser Checks just like all other built-in Check
types. The most important thing is to set the `code.entrypoint` property and point it to your Playwright `.spec.js|ts` file. 
This property supports relative and absolute paths.

```ts
import { BrowserCheck } from 'checkly/constructs'
import * as path from 'path'

new BrowserCheck('browser-check-1', {
  name: 'Browser check #1',
  frequency: 10, // minutes
  locations: ['us-east-1', 'eu-west-1'],
  code: {
    entrypoint: path.join(__dirname, 'home.spec.js')
  }
})
```

- `code` : an object with either an `entrypoint` property that points to `.spec.js|ts` file, or a `content` property with
raw JavaScript / TypeScript as a string.


## `CheckGroup`

You can explicitly organize Checks in Check Groups.

This brings the following benefits:

1. Your Checks are organized in a folder in the Checkly web UI.
2. You can trigger all Checks in a group from the web UI and via a command line trigger.
3. You can manage group-level configuration like the runtime, activated & muted-state, tags and alert channels that trickle
   down to all the Checks in the group.

> Note: you will notice that managing shared configuration between Checks is very easy just using JS/TS. You might not need
Check Groups for that purpose.

#### Adding Checks to a Check Group

You can add a Check to a group in two ways.

1. By passing the `CheckGroup` object for the `group` property of a Check.
2. For Browser Checks, we allow you to use the `testMatch` glob pattern to include any `.spec.js|ts` file, without having to
   create a `BrowserCheck` construct. This works the same ast the `testMatch` glob at the Project level.

```ts
import { CheckGroup, ApiCheck } from 'checkly/constructs'

const group = new CheckGroup('check-group-1', {
  name: 'Group',
  activated: true,
  locations: ['us-east-1', 'eu-west-1'],
  tags: ['api-group'],
  concurrency: 10,
  browserChecks: {
    testMatch: '*.spec.js'
  }
})

new ApiCheck('check-group-api-check-1', {
  name: 'API check #1',
  group,
  request: {
    method: 'GET',
    url: 'https://mac-demo-repo.vercel.app/api/hello',
  }
})
```

- `name` : A friendly name for your Check Group.
- `concurrency`: A number indicating the amount of concurrent Checks to run when a group is triggered.
- `locations`: An array of location codes where to run the Checks in the group, i.e. `['us-east-1', 'eu-west-1']`.
- `privateLocations`: An array of [Private Locations](https://www.checklyhq.com/docs/private-locations/) slugs, i.e. `['datacenter-east-1']`.
- `alertChannels`: An array of `AlertChannel` objects to which to send alert notifications.
- `activated`: A boolean value if all the Checks in the group are activated.
- `muted`: A boolean value if alert notifications from the Checks in the group are muted, i.e. not sent out.
- `tags`: An array of tags. Group tags trickle down to tags on the individual Checks. i.e. `['product', 'api']`
- `runtimeId`: The ID of which [runtime](https://www.checklyhq.com/docs/runtimes/specs/) to use for the Checks in the group.
- `environmentVariables`: An array of objects defining variables in the group scope, i.e. `[{ key: 'DEBUG', value: 'true' }]`
- `localSetupScript`: Any JS/TS code as a string to run before each API Check in this group.
- `localTearDownScript`: Any JS/TS code as a string to run after each API Check in this group.
- `apiCheckDefaults`: A set of defaults for API Checks. This should not be needed. Just compose shared defaults using JS/TS.
- `browserCheckDefaults`: A set of defaults for Browser Checks. This should not be needed. Just compose shared defaults using JS/TS.

> When adding checks to a group using `testMatch`, the CLI searches for files using the corresponding [check file](/docs/cli/using-check-test-match/#checkscheckmatch) as a base path.

## `AlertChannel`

Alert channels let you get alert notifications when a Check fails. [Learn more about alerting in our docs](https://www.checklyhq.com/docs/alerting/)
All alert channels share a set of common properties to define when / how they should alert derived from the abstract class
`AlertChannel`

- `sendRecovery`: A boolean if you want to receive recovery notifications.
- `sendFailure`: A boolean if you want to receive failure notifications.
- `sendDegrade`: A boolean if you want to receive degraded notifications. These only apply to API Checks.
- `sslExpiry`: A boolean if you want to receive a notification when a SSL/TLS certificate expires. This works only for API Checks.
- `sslExpiryThreshold`: A number indicating how many days before the certificate expiry date a notification will be triggered.

Alert channels are assigned to Checks and CheckGroups by instantiating a class and adding the resulting object to the
`alertChannels` array.

> Note that alert channels are only deployed to your Checkly account when referenced explicitly in the `alertChannels`
property of a Project, CheckGroup or Check.

## `SMSAlertChannel`

Sends SMS notifications to phone number. Make sure to use standard international notation.

```ts
import { SmsAlertChannel } from 'checkly/constructs'

const smsChannel = new SmsAlertChannel('sms-channel-1', {
  phoneNumber: '0031061234567890',
})
```

[Learn more about SMS alert channels](/docs/alerting/sms-delivery/)

## `EmailAlertChannel`

Sends email notifications to an email address. Only accepts one address, do not use multiple addresses separated by a comma.

```ts
import { EmailAlertChannel } from 'checkly/constructs'

const emailChannel = new EmailAlertChannel('email-channel-1', {
  address: 'alerts@acme.com',
})
```

## `SlackAlertChannel`

Sends a Slack message to an incoming Slack webhook address. You can specify the target `channel`.

````ts

import { SlackAlertChannel } from 'checkly/constructs'

const slackChannel = new SlackAlertChannel('slack-channel-1', {
  url: 'https://hooks.slack.com/services/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',
  channel: '#ops'
})
````
[Learn more about Slack alert channels](/docs/integrations/slack/)

## `WebhookAlertChannel`

Sends a webhook to any URL. Webhooks are very powerful and have quite some options. Here is an example that send

```ts
import { WebhookAlertChannel } from 'checkly/constructs'

const webhookChannel = new WebhookAlertChannel('webhook-channel-1', {
  name: 'Pushover webhook',
  method: 'POST',
  url: 'https://api.pushover.net/1/messages.json',
  template: `{
    "token":"FILL_IN_YOUR_SECRET_TOKEN_FROM_PUSHOVER",
    "user":"FILL_IN_YOUR_USER_FROM_PUSHOVER",
    "title":"{{ALERT_TITLE}}",
    "html":1,
    "priority":2,
    "retry":30,
    "expire":10800,
    "message":"{{ALERT_TYPE}} {{STARTED_AT}} ({{RESPONSE_TIME}}ms) {{RESULT_LINK}}"
  }`
})
```
- `url`: The URL where to send the webhook HTTP request.
- `method`: A string, either `GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, `PATCH`, `HEAD` or `DELETE` just like an API Check.
- `template`: This is commonly a JSON body. You can use Handlebars-style template variables to add custom data to the template.

[Learn more about Webhook alert channels and available variables](/docs/alerting/webhooks/)

## `OpsgenieAlertChannel`

Sends an alert notification to your Opsgenie account.

```ts
import { OpsgenieAlertChannel } from 'checkly/constructs'

const opsGenieChannel = new OpsgenieAlertChannel('opsgenie-channel-1', {
  name: 'My Ops Team',
  region: 'EU',
  priority: 'P1',
  apiKey: 'xxxx123abc'
})
```

- `name`: Friendly name to recognise the integration.
- `region`: A string representing the Opsgenie location, either `EU` or `US`.
- `priority`: A string representing the severity level, `P1` to `P5`.
- `apiKey`: An API key for your Opsgenie account.

[Learn more about Opsgenie alert channels](/docs/integrations/opsgenie/)

## `PagerdutyAlertChannel`

Sends an alert notification to a specific service in your Pagerduty account

```ts
import { PagerdutyAlertChannel } from 'checkly/constructs'

const pagerdutyChannel = new PagerdutyAlertChannel('pagerduty-channel-1', {
  account: 'ACME',
  serviceName: 'ACME products',
  serviceKey: '872b9b58ff4a9n06d0dl9f20487bbqwew'
})
 ```

- `account`: The name of your Pagerduty account.
- `serviceName`: The name of your service defined in Pagerduty under which the alerts should be nested.
- `serviceKey`: The API key created by installing the Checkly integration in Pagerduty. We advise you to [install the
  Pagerduty alert channel first from our UI](https://app.checklyhq.com/alerts/settings/channels/new/pagerduty) to grab
  the `serviceKey`.

[Learn more about Pagerduty alert channels](/docs/integrations/pagerduty/)

