---
title: How Checkly uses AI - Checkly Docs
displayTitle: How Checkly uses AI 
navTitle: How Checkly uses AI
weight: 1
slug: /
menu:
  platform:
    parent: "AI"
---

Checkly uses AI to enhance our monitoring and testing capabilities. Checkly's AI features are always opt-in. You can 
opt in on the [AI settings screen](https://app.checklyhq.com/settings/account/ai). 

> During the beta phase, Enterprise customers need to enable the AI features in the [Lab settings screen](https://app.checklyhq.com/settings/account/labs) to use them.

We focus the use of AI on three following areas:

1. **Check creation**: use AI to quickly generate checks based making it quicker and easier to set up monitoring for new applications or features.
2. **Check failure triage**: use AI to analyze check failures and provide insights into impacted users and features, helping teams quickly identify and resolve issues.
3. **Check failure remediation**: use AI to propose remediation steps for check failures, reducing the time spent on troubleshooting and improving overall system reliability.

## Data Privacy and Security

All AI features are designed to operate on the data you provide or the data generated by your checks. This data is already 
stored in Checkly, and we do not send any additional data to third-party AI providers. 

Any provided [environment secrets](https://www.checklyhq.com/docs/api-checks/variables/) are scrubbed before being sent to the AI provider.

We do not train any custom models on your data. Any data used by the AI features is processed in real-time and not stored for future use.
To address further privacy concerns, you can bring your own AI model and provider to Checkly. For more information, see the section below on built-in and custom models.

## Built-in and Custom Models

By default, Checkly uses OpenAI's GPT-4.1 model for AI features. However, you can also bring your own model (BYOM) and provider to Checkly.
To do this, you need to set up a custom AI provider in the [AI settings screen](https://app.checklyhq.com/settings/account/ai).

> The Bring Your Own Model (BYOM) feature is available for Enterprise customers only.
